Welcome back this video we'll learn how to draw some simple shapes with SVGA using built in elements.
In the last video we learned about the line element by joining many line segments together.
You can already start drawing some interesting things but there are many other elements worth worrying
about.
For example rather than drawing four lines to create a rectangle we can also just draw a rectangle using
the recked element the location and size of a rectangle is determined by four attributes x y width and
height x and y refer to the coordinates of the upper left corner of the rectangle.
You can probably guess what the width and height determine like lines.
You can get stroke and stroke with attributes to style the border of a rectangle but you can also set
the fill attribute which sets the color inside of the rectangle.
Here's a link to the same code pin from the previous video.
Let's draw a rectangle on her SVGA.
Notice that if I adjust the values for any of these attributes the position and shape of the rectangle
will change accordingly.
Cool let's make another rectangle.
A couple of things to notice here.
First if your shape exceeds the bounds of the SPG it will get cropped elements and SPG don't extend
past the bounds of the SVGA.
Second notice that there is some overlap between our rectangles in this case.
The second rectangle is set and on top of the first rectangle.
But what if that's not what we want.
But if we want the second rectangle to sit behind the first.
You might think we need to adjust the z index or some other property on the element but there's no z
index property on SPG elements.
Instead shape's on SPG are drawn in the order they appear in the document.
If we want the magenta rectangle to be behind the Orange rectangle we have to draw the orange rectangle.
Second
call Lets move the rectangles back to their original position.
One last thing we can also round the corners of a rectangle using the R X and r y attributes the bigger
their values the more rounded the corners when the values are the same.
You get circular corners when the values are different the corners are rounded and an oval or elliptical
shape.
OK let's move on.
Every rectangle with sharp corners is an example of a polygon and SVGA polygon is any shape bounded
by straight line edges.
You can draw an arbitrary polygon using the polygon elements to define the polygon.
We need to specify the set of points representing the vertices of the polygon as a space separated list.
Here's how we can rewrite our existing code to use polygon elements instead of recked elements.
We've only got one attribute in this case instead of four but we have to do some arithmetic to compute
the coordinates of the four corners of the rectangle while all rectangles are polygons not all polygons
are rectangles.
Here's an example of a polygon that isn't a rectangle.
It's hard to know what the shape will look like just from the code.
But if we type out this code we'll see a recognizable shape.
Finally let's examine one more common element.
The circle the circle is determined by three attributes the x coordinate of its center the y coordinate
of its center and how large it is is determined by the radius.
Let's draw a few circles on our SVGA.
That's one friendly star.
Notice that we were able to effectively draw an arc of a circle by placing two circles on top of one
another by making the bottom circle black in the top circle the same color as the star.
It looks like we have one crescent shape rather than two circles stacked together.
You can make that top circle visible by changing its color.
That's enough about shapes in the next video.
We'll take a look at the text element in SVGA.
I'll see you there.